cloud: add private link connection docs (#22192)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/serverless-private-link-connection-to-self-hosted-kafka-in-aws.md

---
title: Connect to AWS Self-Hosted Kafka via Private Link Connection
summary: Learn how to connect to an AWS Self-Hosted Kafka using an AWS Endpoint Service private link connection.
---

# Connect to AWS Self-Hosted Kafka via Private Link Connection

> This document describes how to connect a {{{ .essential }}} cluster to a self-hosted Kafka cluster in AWS using AWS Endpoint Service [private link connection](/tidb-cloud/serverless-private-link-connection.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document describes how to connect a {{{ .essential }}} cluster to a self-hosted Kafka cluster in AWS using an [AWS Endpoint Service private link connection](/tidb-cloud/serverless-private-link-connection.md).
```

The mechanism works as follows:

1. The private link connection connects to your endpoint service with bootstrap port, it returns broker addresses with different ports. 
2. The private link connection connects to your endpoint service with broker addresses and ports.
3. Endpoint service forwards requests to your load balancers.

> 4. Load balancers forward requests to different Kafka brokers based on the port mapping.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The private link connection connects to your AWS Endpoint Service using the bootstrap broker address, which returns the addresses and ports of all Kafka brokers.
2. TiDB Cloud uses the returned broker addresses and ports to establish connections through the private link connection.
3. The AWS Endpoint Service forwards requests to your load balancers.
4. Load balancers route requests to the corresponding Kafka brokers based on port mapping.
```

## Prerequisites
   
- Ensure that you have the following permissions to set up a Kafka cluster in your own AWS account.

    - Manage EC2 nodes
    - Manage VPC
    - Manage subnets

>     - Connect to EC2 nodes to configure Kafka nodes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Manage EC2 instances
    - Manage VPCs
    - Manage subnets
    - Connect to EC2 instances to configure Kafka nodes
```

- Ensure that you have the following authorization to set up a load balancer and endpoint service in your own AWS account.

    - Manage security groups
    - Manage load balancer
    - Manage endpoint services

> - {{{ .essential }}} information: confirm that your {{{ .essential }}} is active in AWS. Retrieve and save the following details for later use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure that your {{{ .essential }}} is active in AWS. Retrieve and save the following details for later use:
```

    - Account ID

>     - Availability Zones (AZ)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Availability Zones (AZs)
```

> - Ensure that your {{{ .essential }}} is active in AWS. Retrieve and save the following details for later use:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Your {{{ .essential }}} is hosted on AWS, and it is active. Retrieve and save the following details for later use:
```

> To view the the AWS account ID and available zones, do the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view the AWS account ID and available zones, do the following:
```

1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com), navigate to the cluster overview page of the TiDB cluster, and then click **Settings** > **Networking** in the left navigation pane.
2. On the **Private Link Connection For Dataflow**, click **Create Private Link Connection**.

> 3. You can find the AWS account ID and available zones information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com), navigate to the cluster overview page of your TiDB cluster, and then click **Settings** > **Networking** in the left navigation pane.
2. In the **Private Link Connection For Dataflow** section, click **Create Private Link Connection**.
3. In the displayed dialog, you can find the AWS account ID and available zones.
```

> 2. In the **Private Link Connection For Dataflow** section, click **Create Private Link Connection**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. In the **Private Link Connection For Dataflow** area, click **Create Private Link Connection**.
```

The following table shows an example of the deployment information.

| Information     | Value    | Note    | 
|--------|-----------------|---------------------------|
| Region    | Oregon (`us-west-2`)    |  N/A |
| Principal of TiDB Cloud AWS Account | `arn:aws:iam::<account_id>:root`     |    N/A  |
| AZ IDs                              | <ul><li>`usw2-az1` </li><li>`usw2-az2` </li><li> `usw2-az3`</li></ul>  | Align AZ IDs to AZ names in your AWS account.<br/>Example: <ul><li> `usw2-az1` => `us-west-2a` </li><li> `usw2-az2` => `us-west-2c` </li><li>`usw2-az3` => `us-west-2b`</li></ul>  |

> | Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern   | <ul><li> `usw2-az1` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az1.unique_name.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li><li> `usw2-az2` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az2.unique_name.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li><li> `usw2-az3` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az3.unique_name.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li></ul>    | Map AZ names to AZ-specified patterns. Make sure that you configure the right pattern to the broker in a specific AZ later. <ul><li> `us-west-2a` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az1.unique_name.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li><li> `us-west-2c` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az2.unique_name.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li><li> `us-west-2b` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az3.unique_name.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li></ul> `unique_name` is a placeholder. The actual value of `unique_name` will be replaced in [Step 4](#step-4-replace-the-unique-name-placeholder-in-kafka-configuration).  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Kafka Advertised Listener Pattern   | <ul><li> `usw2-az1` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az1.<unique_name>.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li><li> `usw2-az2` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az2.<unique_name>.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li><li> `usw2-az3` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az3.<unique_name>.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li></ul>    | Map AZ names to AZ-specified patterns. Make sure that you configure the right pattern to the broker in a specific AZ later. <ul><li> `us-west-2a` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az1.<unique_name>.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li><li> `us-west-2c` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az2.<unique_name>.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li><li> `us-west-2b` => &lt;broker_id&gt;.usw2-az3.<unique_name>.aws.plc.tidbcloud.com:&lt;port&gt; </li></ul> `<unique_name>` is a placeholder and will be replaced with the actual value in [Step 4](#step-4-replace-the-unique-name-placeholder-in-kafka-configuration).  |
```

2. Note down the **Service name**. You need to provide it to TiDB Cloud, for example `com.amazonaws.vpce.us-west-2.vpce-svc-0f49e37e1f022cd45`.

3. On the detail page of the kafka-pl-service, click the **Allow principals** tab, and then add the AWS account ID that you obtained in [Prerequisites](#prerequisites) to the allowlist, for example, `arn:aws:iam::<account_id>:root`.

## Step 3. Create a private link connection in TiDB Cloud

To create a private link connection in TiDB Cloud, do the following:

1. Create a private link connection in TiDB Cloud using the AWS endpoint service name you obtained from [Step 2](#2-set-up-an-aws-endpoint-service) (for example, `com.amazonaws.vpce.<region>.vpce-svc-xxxx`).

    For more information, see [Create an AWS Endpoint Service private link connection](/tidb-cloud/serverless-private-link-connection.md#create-an-aws-endpoint-service-private-link-connection).

> 2. Attach domains to the private link connection so that dataflow services in TiDB Cloud can access the Kafka cluster.

Author: 说明一下 attach TiDB Cloud Managed 类型的 domain
